Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
Policy Document – Part II
1. Terms & Conditions
The insurance cover provided under this Policy to the Insured Person up to the Sum Insured is and shall
be subject to (a) the terms and conditions of this Policy and (b) the receipt of premium, and (c) the
information You provided to Us (including by way of the Proposal or Information Summary Sheet) on Your
behalf and on behalf of all persons to be insured. Please inform Us immediately of any change in the
address, nature of job, state of health, or of any other changes affecting You or any Insured Person.
2. Benefits
The Policy covers reasonable expenses incurred towards medical treatment taken during the Policy
Period for an Illness, Accident or condition described below if this is contracted or sustained by an
Insured Person during the Policy Period and subject always to the Sum Insured, any subsidiary limit
specified in the Product Benefits Table, the terms, conditions, limitations and exclusions mentioned in the
Policy and eligibility as per the insurance plan opted for in the Product Benefits Table and as shown in the
Schedule of Insurance Certificate :
2.1. In-patient Treatment
We will cover Medical Expenses for:
(a) Doctors’ fees
(b) Diagnostics Tests
(c) Medicines, drugs and consumables
(d) Intravenous fluids, blood transfusion, injection administration charges
(e) Operation theatre charges
(f) The cost of prosthetics and other devices or equipment if implanted internally during a
Surgical Operation.
(g) Intensive Care Unit charges
2.2. Hospital Accommodation
We will cover Reasonable and Customary charges for Hospital accommodation.
2.3. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses
We will cover Medical Expenses incurred due to Illness up to 30 days immediately before an Insured
Person’s admission to a Hospital for the same Illness as long as We have accepted an In-patient
Hospitalisation claim under 2.1 above. Pre-hospitalization expenses can be claimed as reimbursement
only.
Page 1 of 25Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
2.4. Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses
We will cover Medical Expenses incurred due to Illness up to 60 days immediately after an Insured
Person’s discharge from Hospital for the same Illness as long as We have accepted an In-patient
Hospitalisation claim under 2.1 above. Post-hospitalization expenses can be claimed as reimbursement
only.
2.5. Day-Care Procedures
We will cover Medical Expenses for Day Care Procedures (including Chemotherapy, Radiotherapy,
Hemodialysis, any procedure which needs a period of specialized observation or care after completion of
the procedure) where such procedures are undertaken by an Insured Person as an In-patient in a
Hospital for a continuous period of less than 24 hours. Any procedure undertaken on an out-patient basis
in a Hospital will not be covered.
2.6. Domiciliary Treatment
We will cover Medical Expenses for medical treatment taken at home if this continues for an uninterrupted
period of 3 days and the condition for which treatment is taken would otherwise have necessitated
hospitalization as long as either (i) the attending Doctor confirms that the Insured Person could not be
transferred to a Hospital or (ii) the Insured Person satisfies Us that a Hospital bed was unavailable.
2.7 Organ Donor
We will cover Medical Expenses for an organ donor’s treatment for the harvesting of the organ donated
provided that:
a. The donation conforms to The Transplantation of Human Organs Act 1994 and the organ is
for the use of the Insured Person;
b. The Insured Person has been medically advised to undergo an organ transplant;
We will not cover:
(a) Pre-hospitalisation or post-hospitalization Medical Expenses or screening expenses of
the donor or any other medical expenses as a result of the harvesting from the donor;
(b) Costs directly or indirectly associated with the acquisition of the donor’s organ.
2.8 Emergency ambulance
We will cover Reasonable and Customary ambulance expenses incurred to transfer the Insured Person
by surface transport following an Emergency to the nearest Hospital with adequate facilities if:
a. The ambulance service is offered by a healthcare or ambulance service provider;
b. We have accepted an In-patient Hospitalization claim under the provisions of 2.1 above;
In the case of Out-Of-Network Hospitalization of the Insured Person Our maximum liability for ambulance
expenses is limited to Rs.2,000/- per event.
Page 2 of 25Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
2.9 Consultation and Diagnostic Tests (For Platinum Policyholders only)
We will cover an Insured Person’s Reasonable & Customary consultation expenses of Medically
Necessary consultation with a Doctor, as an out-patient to assess the Insured Person’s health condition
for any Illness. We will also pay for any Diagnostic Tests prescribed by the Doctor upto the sub-limits
shown in the Product Benefits Table.
If there is an unutilized amount (not used by the Insured Person) under the applicable subsidiary limit for
this benefit (as specified in the Product Benefits Table) in a Policy Year, then if the Policy is in force and
the Policy has been renewed with Us without any break, We will carry forward 80% of this amount to the
immediately succeeding Policy Year, provided that the total amount (including the unutilized amount
available under this benefit) shall at no time exceed 2.5 times the amount of the entitlement in respect of
this benefit under the plan applicable to the Insured Person per the Product Benefits Table.
3. Co-pay
If any Insured Person is 65 years of age or over on the date of commencement of the current Policy Year,
then it is agreed that We will only pay 80% of any amount We assess for payment or reimbursement in
respect of any claim made by that Insured Person and the balance will be borne by the Insured Person.
4. Exclusions
We shall not be liable under this Policy for any claim in connection with or in respect of the following:
a. Pre-Existing Conditions
Benefits will not be available for Pre-existing Conditions until 48 months of continuous coverage have
elapsed since the inception of the first Policy with Us.
b. 30 Days Initial Waiting Period
We will not cover any treatment taken during the first 30 days since the date of commencement of the
Policy, unless the treatment needed is the result of an Accident. This waiting period does not apply for
any subsequent and continuous renewals of Your Policy.
c. Specific Waiting Period
The conditions listed below will be subject to a waiting period of 24 months and will be covered
from the commencement of the 3rd Policy Year as long as the Insured Person has been insured
continuously under the Policy without any break:
1. Stones in biliary and urinary systems
2. Lumps / cysts / nodules / polyps / internal tumours
3. Gastric and Duodenal Ulcers
4. Surgery on tonsils / adenoids
5. Osteoarthrosis / Arthritis / Gout / Rheumatism / Spondylosis / Spondylitis / Intervertebral
Disc Prolapse
Page 3 of 25Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
6. Cataract
7. Fissure / Fistula / Haemorrhoids
8. Hernia / Hydrocele
9. Chronic Renal Failure or end stage Renal Failure
10. Sinusitis / Deviated Nasal Septum / Tympanoplasty / Chronic Suppurative Otitis Media
11. Benign Prostatic Hypertrophy
12. Knee/Hip Joint replacement
13. Dilatation and Curettage
14. Varicose veins
15. Dysfunctional Uterine Bleeding / Fibroids / Prolapse Uterus / Endometriosis
16. Diabetes and related complications
17. Hysterectomy for any benign disorder
d. Personal Waiting Periods
Conditions mentioned under Personal Waiting Period in the Schedule of Insurance Certificate will
be subject to a waiting period of 24 months and will be covered from the commencement of the
third Policy Year as long as the Insured Person has been insured continuously under the Policy
without any break.
e. Permanent Exclusions
We will not be liable under any circumstances, for any claim in connection with or with regard to
any of the following permanent exclusions and any such other exclusions as may be specified in
the Schedule of Insurance Certificate :-
i. Addictive conditions and disorders
Treatment related to addictive conditions and disorders, or from any kind of substance
abuse or misuse including alcohol abuse or misuse.
ii. Ageing and puberty
Treatment to relieve symptoms caused by ageing, puberty, or other natural physiological
cause, such as menopause and hearing loss caused by maturing or ageing.
iii. Artificial life maintenance
Artificial life maintenance, including life support machine use, where such treatment will
not result in recovery or restoration of the previous state of health
iv. Circumcision
Page 4 of 25Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
Circumcision unless necessary for the treatment of a disease or necessitated by an
Accident.
v. Conflict and disaster
Treatment for any illness or injury resulting from nuclear or chemical contamination, war,
riot, revolution, acts of terrorism or any similar event (other than natural disaster or
calamity), if one or more of the following conditions apply:
1. The Insured Person put himself in danger by entering a known area of
conflict where active fighting or insurrections are taking place
2. The Insured Person was an active participant in the above mentioned acts or
events of a similar nature.
3. The Insured Person displayed a blatant disregard for personal safety
vi. Congenital conditions
Treatment for any Congenital Anomaly.
vii. Convalescence and Rehabilitation
Hospital accommodation when it is used solely or primarily for any of the following
purposes:
1. Convalescence, rehabilitation, supervision or any other purpose other than
for receiving eligible treatment of a type that normally requires a stay in
Hospital.
2. receiving general nursing care or any other services that do not require the
Insured Person to be in Hospital and could be provided in another
establishment that is not a Hospital
3. receiving services from a therapist or complementary medical practitioner or
a practitioner of alternative medicine.
viii. Cosmetic surgery
Treatment undergone purely for cosmetic or psychological reasons to improve
appearance. However, this exclusion does not apply where medically required as a part
of treatment for cancer, accidents and burns to restore functionality.
ix. Dental/oral treatment
Treatment for any dental or oral condition, which includes surgical operations for the
treatment of bone disease when related to gum disease or damage, or treatment for, or
treatment arising from, disorders of the tempromandibular joint.
Page 5 of 25Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
EXCEPTION: We will pay for a Surgical Operation for which the Insured Person is
Hospitalised as a result of an Accident and which is undertaken as an In-patient in a
Hospital and carried out by a Doctor.
x. Drugs and dressings for Out-patient or take-home use
Any drugs or surgical dressings that are provided or prescribed in the case of Out-patient
Treatment, or for an Insured Person to take home on leaving Hospital, for any condition,
except as included in post-hospitalization expenses under clause 2.4 above.
xi. Eyesight
Treatment to correct refractive errors of the eye, unless required as the result of an
Accident. We will not pay for routine eye examinations, contact lenses, spectacles or
laser eye sight correction.
xii. Experimental treatment
Treatment, including medication, which in competent Medical Practitioner’s opinion is
experimental or has not generally been proved to be effective.
xiii. Health hydros, nature cure, wellness clinics etc.
Treatment or services received in health hydros, nature cure clinics or any establishment
that is not a Hospital.
xiv. HIV and AIDS
Any treatment for, or treatment arising from, Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) or
Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS), including any condition that is related to
HIV or AIDS.
xv. Hereditary conditions
Treatment of abnormalities, deformities, Illnesses present only because they have been
passed down through the generations of the family.
xvi. Items of personal comfort and convenience, including but not limited to:
1. Telephone, television, diet charges, (unless included in room rent) personal
attendant or barber or beauty services, baby food, cosmetics, napkins,
toiletry items, guest services and similar incidental expenses or services.
2. Private nursing/attendant’s charges incurred during Pre-Hospitalization or
Post-Hospitalization.
3. Drugs or treatment not supported by prescription .
Page 6 of 25Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
4. Issue of medical certificate and examinations as to suitability for employment
or travel or any other such purpose.
5. Any charges incurred to procure any treatment/Illness related documents
pertaining to any period of hospitalization/Illness.
6. External and or durable medical/non medical equipment of any kind used for
diagnosis and or treatment including CPAP, CAPD, Infusion pump etc.
7. Ambulatory devices such as walkers, crutches, belts, collars, caps, splints,
slings, braces, stockings of any kind, diabetic foot wear,
glucometer/thermometer and similar items and also any medical equipment
which is subsequently used at home.
8. Nurses hired in addition to the Hospital’s own staff.
xvii. Non-allopathic treatment
Any other streams of medicine apart from allopathy. We will not pay for other streams of
treatment including ayurvedic, homeopathic or unani medicine.
xviii. Psychiatric and Psychosomatic Conditions
Treatment of any mental illness or sickness or disease including a psychiatric condition,
disorganisation of personality or mind, or emotions or behaviour, Parkinson’s or
Alzheimer’s disease even if caused or aggravated by or related to an Accident or Illness
or general debility or exhaustion (“run-down condition”);
xix. Obesity
Treatment for obesity.
xx. Out-patient Treatment
Out-patient Treatment is not covered except those out-patient benefits explicitly stated as
an eligible benefit for Your chosen plan.
xxi. Reproductive medicine - Birth control & Assisted reproduction
1. Any type of contraception, sterilization, termination of pregnancy or Family
planning.
2. Treatment to assist reproduction, including IVF treatment.
Page 7 of 25Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
xxii. Self-inflicted injuries
Treatment for, or arising from, an injury that is intentionally self-inflicted, including
attempted suicide.
xxiii. Sexual problems and gender issues
Treatment of any sexual problem including impotence (irrespective of the cause) and sex
changes or gender reassignments or erectile dysfunction.
xxiv. Sexually transmitted diseases
Treatment for any sexually transmitted disease, including Genital Warts, Syphilis,
Gonorrhoea, Genital Herpes, Chlamydia, Pubic Lice and Trichomoniasis.
xxv. Sleep disorders
Treatment for sleep apnea, snoring, or any other sleep-related breathing problem.
xxvi. Speech disorders
Treatment for speech disorders, including stammering unless the disorder occurs directly
due to an Accident.
xxvii. Treatment for developmental problems
Treatment for, or related to developmental problems, including but not limited to:
1. learning difficulties, such as dyslexia;
2. behavioral problems, including attention deficit hyperactivity disorder
(ADHD);
3. deviated nasal septum (straitening of the nasal tract).
xxviii. Treatment received outside India
Any treatment received outside India
xxix. Unrecognised physician or Hospital:
1. Treatment provided by a medical practitioner who is not recognized by the
Medical Council of India.
2. Treatment in any hospital or by any medical practitioner or any other provider
of services that We have blacklisted as listed on Our website.
3. Treatment provided by anyone with the same residence as Insured Person or
who is a member of the Insured Person’s immediate family
Page 8 of 25Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
xxx. Unlawful Activity
Any condition as a result of Insured Person committing or attempting to commit a breach
of law with criminal intent.
xxxi. Hospitalization undertaken for observation or for investigations only and where no
medical treatment is provided.
xxxii. Active participation in adventure or hazardous sports including but not limited to para-
jumping, rock climbing, mountaineering, motor racing, horse racing or deep-sea
diving.
5. Standard Terms and Conditions
a. Reasonable Care
The Insured Person shall take all reasonable steps to safeguard against any Accident or illnesses
that may give rise to any claim under this Policy.
b. Observance of terms and conditions
The due observance and fulfillment of the terms, conditions and endorsement of this Policy in so
far as they relate to anything to be done or complied with by the Insured Person, shall be a
condition precedent to any liability to make payment under this Policy .
c. Subrogation
The Insured Person shall do and concur in doing and permit to be done all such acts and things
as may be necessary or required by Us, before or after indemnification, in enforcing or endorsing
any rights or remedies, or of obtaining relief or indemnity, to which We are or would become
entitled or subrogated. Neither You nor any Insured Person shall do any acts or things that
prejudice these subrogation rights in any manner. Any recovery made by Us pursuant to this
clause shall first be applied to the amounts paid or payable by Us under this Policy and the costs
and expenses incurred by Us in effecting the recovery, whereafter We shall pay the balance
amount to You. This clause shall not apply to Hospital Cash benefit (as applicable under the
Policy).
d. Contribution
If the Insured Person is covered by any other policy which covers any claim in whole or in part
made under this Policy (or would cover any claim made under this Policy, if this Policy did not
exist) then We shall not be liable to pay or contribute more than Our rateable proportion of the
claim. This clause shall not apply to Hospital Cash benefit (as applicable under the Policy).
Page 9 of 25Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
e. Fraudulent claims
If a claim is in any way found to be fraudulent, or if any false statement, or declaration is made or
used in support of such a claim, or if any fraudulent means or devices are used by the Insured
Person or anyone acting on behalf of the Insured Person to obtain any benefit under this Policy,
then this Policy shall be void and all claims being processed shall be forfeited for all Insured
Persons and all sums paid under this Policy shall be repaid to Us by all Insured Persons who
shall be jointly liable for such repayment.
f. Free Look Provision
You have a period of 15 days from the date of receipt of the Policy document to review the terms
and conditions of this Policy. If You have any objections to any of the terms and conditions, You
have the option of canceling the Policy stating the reasons for cancellation and You shall be
refunded the premium paid by You after adjusting the amounts spent on any medical check-up,
stamp duty charges and proportionate risk premium. You can cancel your Policy only if no claims
have been made under the Policy. The Insured Persons and Your rights under this Policy shall
immediately stand extinguished on the free look cancellation of the Policy. Free look provision is
not applicable and available at the time of renewal of the Policy.
g. Portability Benefit
i. From another company to Our Policy
(i) If the proposed Insured Person was insured continuously and without a break
under another Indian retail health insurance policy with any other Indian
Insurance company, then General Exclusion 4(a) of the Policy stands deleted
and shall be replaced entirely with the following:
4(a) Pre-Existing Conditions
Benefits will not be available for Pre-existing Conditions until the
completion of the period stated in the Schedule of Insurance Certificate for
the Insured Person. It is understood and agreed that the period stated in
the Schedule of Insurance Certificate for Pre-existing Conditions shall not
exceed the difference between the waiting period for pre-existing
conditions served under the previous policy and the 48 months waiting
period that would otherwise have been applicable from the inception of the
first Policy with Us.
However, General Exclusion 4(b) shall continue to apply and We will not
cover any treatment taken during the first 30 days from the inception of the
Page 10 of 25Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
first Policy with Us, unless the treatment is needed as a result of an
Accident.
(ii) It is understood and agreed that:
(1) If You wish to exercise the Portability Benefit, We should have received
Your application with complete documentation at least 21 days before
the expiry of Your present period of insurance;
(2) If the proposed Sum Insured is more than the insurance cover under the
previous policy, then the revised waiting period under General Exclusion
4(a) shall only be applicable to the extent of the insurance cover under
the previous policy; and
(3) We may revise the premium payable based on the extent of applicability
of the Portability Benefit.
(4) This benefit is available only at the time of renewal of existing health
insurance policy.
(5) The Portability Benefit shall be applied subject to the following :
(a) You shall give Us all additional documentation and/or information We
request;
(b) You pay Us the applicable premium in full;
(c) We may, subject to Our medical underwriting, restrict the terms upon
which We may offer cover, the decision as to which shall be in Our
sole and absolute discretion;
(d) There is no obligation on Us to insure all Insured Persons or to
insure all Insured Persons on the proposed terms, even if You have
given Us all documentation;
(e) We have received the database and claim history from the previous
insurance company for the Insured Persons’ previous health
insurance policy.
ii. From Our existing health insurance policies to this Policy
(i) If the proposed Insured Person was insured continuously and without a break
under another health insurance policy with Us, then General Exclusion 4(a) of the
Page 11 of 25Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
Policy stands deleted and shall be replaced entirely with the following and
General Exclusion 4(b) shall not be applicable:
4(a) Pre-Existing Conditions
Benefits will not be available for Pre-existing Conditions until the
completion of the period stated in the Schedule of Insurance Certificate for
the Insured Person. It is understood and agreed that the period stated in
the Schedule of Insurance Certificate for Pre-existing Conditions shall not
exceed the difference between the waiting period for pre-existing
conditions served under the previous policy and the 48 months waiting
period that would otherwise have been applicable from the inception of the
first Policy with Us.
(ii) It is understood and agreed that:
(1) If You wish to exercise the Portability Benefit, We should have received
Your application before the expiry of Your present period of insurance;
(2) If the proposed Sum Insured is more than the insurance cover under the
previous policy, then the revised waiting period under General Exclusion
4(a) shall only be applicable to the extent of the insurance cover under
the previous policy;
(3) We are not bound to continue all terms and conditions of the present
cover under the Policy of the Insured Person under the new policy, but
for calculation of all waiting periods (including the waiting period provided
under General Exclusions in clauses 4(c), 4(d) and the maternity benefit
endorsement) under the new policy, the time spent by Insured Person
under this Policy may be taken into account, provided new policy is taken
without any break from this Policy; and
(4) This benefit is available only at the time of renewal of existing health
insurance policy.
(5) The Portability Benefit shall be applied subject to the following :
(a) You shall give Us all additional documentation and/or information We
request;
(b) You pay Us the applicable premium in full;
Page 12 of 25Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
(c) We may, subject to Our medical underwriting, restrict the terms upon
which We may offer cover, the decision as to which shall be in Our sole
and absolute discretion;
(d) There is no obligation on Us to insure all Insured Persons or to
insure all Insured Persons on the proposed terms, even if You have
given Us all documentation.
h. Cancellation/ Termination (other than freelook cancellation)
1. Cancellation by Insured Person:
You may terminate this Policy during the Policy Period by giving Us at least 30 days prior written
notice. We shall cancel the Policy and refund the premium for the balance of the Policy Period in
accordance with the table below provided that no claim has been made under the Policy by or on
behalf of any Insured Person.
Length of time Policy in force Refund of premium
up to 30 days 75%
up to 90 days 50%
up to 180 days 25%
exceeding 180 days 0%
2. Automatic Cancellation:
a. Individual Policy:
The Policy shall automatically terminate on death of the Insured Person
b. For Policy issued to Family:
The Policy shall automatically terminate in the event of the death of all the Insured
Persons.
c. Refund:
A refund in accordance with the table in section 5(h)(1) above shall be payable if there is
an automatic cancellation of the Policy provided that no claim has been filed under the
Policy by or on behalf of any Insured Person.
3. Cancellation by Us:
Page 13 of 25Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
Without prejudice to the above, We may terminate this Policy during the Policy Period by
sending 30 days prior written notice to Your address shown in the Schedule of Insurance
Certificate without refund of premium if in Our opinion:
i. You or any Insured Person or any person acting on behalf of either has acted in
a dishonest or fraudulent manner under or in relation to this Policy;
ii. You or any Insured Person has not disclosed any true , complete and all correct
facts in relation to the Policy; and/or
iii. Continuance of the Policy poses a moral hazard.
For avoidance of doubt, it is clarified that no claims shall be admitted and/or paid during
the notice period by Us in relation to the Policy.
i. Territorial Jurisdiction
All benefits are available in India only, and all claims shall be payable in India in Indian
Rupees only.
j. Policy Disputes
Any dispute concerning the interpretation of the terms, conditions, limitations and/or
exclusions contained herein shall be governed by Indian law and shall be subject to the
jurisdiction of the Indian Courts.
k. Renewal of Policy
The renewal premium is payable on or before the due date in the amount shown in the
Schedule of Insurance Certificate or at such altered rate as may be reviewed and notified by
Us before completion of the Policy Period. We are under no obligation to notify You of the
renewal date of Your Policy. We will allow a Grace Period of 30 days from the due date of
the renewal premium for payment to Us.
If the Policy is not renewed within the Grace Period then We may agree to issue a fresh
policy subject to Our underwriting criteria and no continuing benefits shall be available from
the expired Policy.
Renewal of the Policy will not ordinarily be denied other than on grounds of moral hazard,
misrepresentation and fraud.
l. Notices
Any notice, direction or instruction given under this Policy shall be in writing and delivered by
hand, post, or facsimile to
Page 14 of 25Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
i. The You/Insured Person at the address specified in the Schedule of Insurance
Certificate or at the changed address of which We must receive written notice.
ii. Us at the following address.
Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited
D-1, 2nd Floor,
Salcon Ras Vilas,
District Centre, Saket,
New Delhi-110 017
Fax No.: 1800-3070-3333
In addition, we may send You/Insured Person other information through electronic and
telecommunications means with respect to Your Policy from time to time.
m. Claims Procedure
(a) Cashless Hospitalization Facility for Network Hospitals:
i. The health card We provide will enable an Insured Person to access treatment on
a cashless basis only at any Network Hospital on the production of the card to the
Hospital prior to admission, provided that:
(1) The Insured Person has notified Us in writing at least 72 Hours before a
planned Hospitalization. In an Emergency the Insured Person should
notify Us in writing within 48 hours of Hospitalization; and
(2) We have pre-authorized the In-patient Treatment or Day Care
Procedure.
ii. Cashless treatment will not be available if You take treatment in an Out-Of-Network
Hospital.
iii. For cashless Hospitalization We will make the payment of the amounts assessed
to be due directly to the Network Hospital. The treatment must take place within 15
days of the pre-authorization date and pre-authorization is only valid if all the
details of the authorized treatment, including dates, Hospital and locations, match
with the details of the actual treatment received.
iv. If pre-authorisation is not obtained then the cashless facility will not be available
and the claims procedure shall be as per (b)(ii) below.
(b) Out-Of-Network Hospitals & All Other Claims for Reimbursement including Hospital
Cash:
Page 15 of 25Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
i. We should generally be notified in writing at least 72 hours prior to the planned
date of such treatment, consultation or procedure being taken and We must have
pre-authorised such treatment, consultation, service or procedure. In an
Emergency the Insured Person should notify Us in writing within 15 days of
discharge from Hospital
The following information is mandated in the notification:
1. Policy number.
2. Name of Policyholder.
3. Name of Insured Person in respect of whom the claim has been notified.
4. Name of Hospital with address and contact number.
5. Diagnosis.
6. Treatment undergone (medical / surgical management with name of
surgical procedure undergone, if applicable) and approximate amount
being claimed for
ii. For any Illness or Accident or medical condition that requires Hospitalization, the
Insured Person shall deliver to Us the documents listed below, at his own expense,
within 30 days of the Insured Person's discharge from Hospital (when the claim is
only in respect of post-hospitalization, within 30 days of the completion of the post-
hospitalization):
(1) Duly filled claim form.
(2) Original bills, receipts and discharge certificate/card from the Hospital/
Doctor.
(3) Original bills from chemists supported by proper prescription.
(4) Original investigation test reports and payment receipts.
(5) Doctor's referral letter advising hospitalization in non-Accident cases.
(6) Details of any other insurance policy that may respond to the claim.
(7) First Information Report (FIR) for medico-legal cases.
iii. For any medical treatment taken from an Out-Of-Network Hospital We will only pay
Medical Expenses which are Reasonable and Customary.
(c) For Network and Out-Of-Network Hospitals
In all cases:
i. We reserve the right to call for:
(1) Any other documentation or information that We believe may be
required; and
Page 16 of 25Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
(2) A medical examination by Our doctor or for an investigation as often as
We believe this to be necessary. Any expenses related to such
examinations or investigations shall be borne by Us.
ii. In the event of the Insured Person's death during Hospitalization, written notice
accompanied by a copy of the post mortem report (if any) shall be given to Us
within 14 days regardless of whether any other notice has been given to Us. We
reserve the right to require an autopsy.
iii.For the purposes of benefit 2, it is understood and agreed that if a Hospital room as per
the rent limit permitted by the insurance plan opted for, as shown in the Product Benefits
Table, is unavailable, then We will only be liable to make payment for a Hospital room that
is actually occupied or as per entitlement permitted by the plan opted for, whichever is
lower. Further where Medical Expenses are linked with room rates, Medical Expenses as
applicable to the room that is actually occupied or as per room rates entitlement under the
plan opted, whichever is lower, shall be payable.
(d) It is hereby agreed and understood that in providing pre-authorisation or accepting a
claim for reimbursement under this Policy or making a payment under this Policy, We
make no representation and/or give no guarantee and/or assume no responsibility for
the appropriateness, quality or effectiveness of the treatment sought or provided.
n. Alteration to the Policy
This Policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. Any change in the Policy will only be
evidenced by a written endorsement signed and stamped by Us. No one except Us can change
or vary this Policy.
o. Change of Policy holder
If You do not renew the Policy by the due dates specified in the Schedule of Insurance Certificate,
any other adult Insured Person may apply to renew the Policy within 30 days of the end of the
Policy Period provided that We receive an application and the premium from such Insured Person
and evidence satisfactory to Us of the agreement of all other Insured Persons and You (except in
case of death). If We accept such application and the premium for the renewed Policy is paid on
time, then the Policy shall be treated as having been renewed without a break in cover. Coverage
shall not be available for the period for which no premium is received.
p. Nominee
You can at the inception or at any time before the expiry of the Policy, make a nomination for the
purpose of payment of claims, under the Policy in the event of death.
Any change of nomination shall be communicated to Us in writing and such change shall be
effective only when an endorsement on the Policy is made by Us.
Page 17 of 25Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
In case of any Insured Person other than You under the Policy, for the purpose of payment of
claims in the event of death, the default nominee would be You.
q. Obligations in case of a minor
If an Insured Person is less than 18 years of age, the You/adult Insured Person shall be
completely responsible for ensuring compliance with all the terms and conditions of this Policy on
behalf of that minor Insured Person.
r. Customer Service and Grievances Reddressal:
i. In case of any query or complaint/grievance, You / Insured Person may approach
Our office at the following address:
Customer Services Department
Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited
D-1, 2nd Floor,
Salcon Ras Vilas,
District Centre, Saket,
New Delhi-110 017
Contact No: 1800-3010-3333
Fax No.: 1800-3070-3333
Email ID: customercare@maxbupa.com
ii. In case You/Insured Person are not satisfied with the decision of the above office, or
have not received any response within 10 days, You/Insured Person may contact the
following official for resolution:
Head – Customer Services
Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited
D-1, 2nd Floor,
Salcon Ras Vilas,
District Centre, Saket,
New Delhi-110 017
Contact No: 1800-3010-3333
Fax No.: 1800-3070-3333
Email ID: customercare@maxbupa.com
iii. In case You/Insured Person are not satisfied with Our decision/resolution, You may
approach the Insurance Ombudsman at the addresses given in Annexure I.
iv. The complaint should be made in writing duly signed by the complainant or by his/her
legal heirs with full details of the complaint and the contact information of the
complainant.
Page 18 of 25Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
v. As per provision 13(3)of the Redressal of Public Grievances Rules 1998,the
complaint to the Ombudsman can be made
1. only if the grievance has been rejected by the Grievance Redressal
Machinery of the Insurer;
2. within a period of one year from the date of rejection by the insurer;
3. if it is not simultaneously under any litigation.
6. Interpretations & Definitions
In this Policy the following words or phrases shall have the meanings attributed to them wherever
they appear in this Policy and for this purpose the singular will be deemed to include the plural, the
male gender includes the female where the context permits:
Def. 1. Accident or Accidental means a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external
and visible means which occurs when the policy is in force.
Def. 2. Congenital Anomaly refers to either:
i) an external condition(s) which is present since birth, in the visible and accessible parts of the
body, and which is abnormal with reference to form, structure or position, OR
ii) a condition(s) which is present since birth, but is internal and not visible.
Def. 3. Co-pay is a cost-sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides that the
insured will bear a specified percentage of the admissible costs. Co-pay does not reduce the
sum insured.
Def. 4. Day Care Procedure refers to medical treatment, and/or surgical procedure which is:
• undertaken under General or Local Anaesthesia in a hospital/day care centre in less than
24 hrs because of technological advancement, and
• which would have otherwise required a hospitalization of more than 24 hours. Treatment
normally taken on an out-patient basis is not included in the scope of this definition.
Def. 5. Diagnostic Tests: Investigations, such as X-Ray or blood tests, to find the cause of your
symptoms and medical condition
Def. 6. Deductible: The amount which, in accordance with the terms of the policy, is deducted from the
claim amount that would otherwise have been payable and will therefore be borne by the
policyholder.
Def. 7. Domiciliary Treatment: Domiciliary treatment means medical treatment for a period exceeding 3
days, for an illness/disease/injury which in the normal course would require care and treatment
at a Hospital but is actually taken while confined at home under any of the following
circumstances:
Page 19 of 25Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
• the condition of the patient is such that he/she is not in a condition to be removed to a
hospital, or
• the patient takes treatment at home on account of non availability of room in a hospital.
Def. 8. Doctor is a medical practitioner who holds a valid registration from the medical council of any
state of India and is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting
within the scope and jurisdiction of his licence.
Def. 9. Emergency means a severe illness or injury which results in symptoms which occur suddenly and
unexpectedly, and requires immediate care by a Doctor to prevent death or serious long term
impairment of the Insured Person’s health.
Def. 10. Family means a unit comprising of upto six members who are related to each other in the
following manner:
i) Legally married husband and wife as long as they continue to be married; and
ii) Upto four of their children who are more than 90 days old and less than 21 years on the
date of commencement of the initial cover under the Policy
Def. 11. Grace Period means the specified period of time immediately following the premium due date
during which a payment can be made to renew or continue a policy in force without loss of
continuity benefits such as waiting periods and coverage of Pre-existing conditions. Coverage is
not available for the period for which no premium is received.
Def. 12. Hospital means any institution established for in-patient care and day care treatment of
sickness and / or injuries and which has been registered as a hospital with the local authorities,
wherever applicable, and is under the supervision of a registered and qualified medical
practitioner AND must comply with all minimum criteria as under:
a) has at least 10 inpatient beds, in those towns having a population of less than 10,00,000 and
15 inpatient beds in all other places;
b) has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock;
c) has qualified Doctor (s) in charge round the clock;
d) has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out
e) maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the Insurance
company’s authorized personnel.
Def. 13. Hospitalisation or Hospitalised means the admission as an In-patient into a Hospital for
necessary medical treatment for a continuous minimum period of 24 hours as a consequence of
an Illness or Accident occurring during the Policy Period.
Def. 14. Information Summary Sheet means the record and confirmation of information provided to Us
or Our representatives over the telephone for the purposes of applying for this Policy.
Page 20 of 25Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
Def. 15. Intensive Care Unit means an identified section, ward or wing of a hospital which is under the
constant supervision of a dedicated Doctor(s), and which is specially equipped for the
continuous monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a critical condition, or require life
support facilities and where the level of care and supervision is considerably more sophisticated
and intensive than in the ordinary and other wards.
Def. 16. Illness means sickness (which is a condition or an ailment that impacts on the general
soundness and health of the body of the Insured Person) or a disease (which is an affliction of
the Insured Person’s bodily organs that has a distinct and recognised pattern of symptoms) or a
pathological condition which results in detriment to normal physiological function and which
shows itself during the Policy Period and necessitates medical Treatment. Illness does not
mean and this Policy does not cover any mental illness or sickness or disease (including but not
limited to a psychiatric condition, disorganisation of personality or mind, or emotions or
behaviour) even if caused by or aggravated by or related to an Accident or Illness.
Def. 17. In-patient: Treatment for which the Insured Person has to stay in a hospital for more than 24
hours for a covered event.
Def. 18. Insured Person means person named as insured in the Schedule of Insurance Certificate. Any
Family member may be added as an Insured Person during the Policy Period if We have
accepted his application for insurance and issued an endorsement confirming the addition of
such person as an Insured Person.
Def. 19. Medical Expenses means expenses necessarily and actually incurred for medical treatment
during the Policy Period on the advice of a Doctor due to Illness or Accident, by an Insured
Person, which are Reasonable and Customary.
Def. 20. Medically Necessary: Medically necessary treatment is defined as any treatment, tests,
medication, or stay in Hospital or part of a stay in Hospital which:
a) is required for the medical management of the illness or injury suffered by the insured;
b) must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and appropriate
medical care in scope, duration, or intensity;
c) must have been prescribed by a Doctor;
d) must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international medical practice
or by the medical community in India.
Def. 21. Network means all such Hospitals, day care centres or other providers that the We have
mutually agreed with, to provide services like cashless access to Policyholders. The list is
available with Us and subject to amendment from time to time.
Def. 22. Out-Of-Network means any Hospital, day care centre or other provider that is not part of the
Network.
Page 21 of 25Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
Def. 23. Out-patient Treatment means treatment given at a hospital, doctors' consulting room, office or
Out-patient clinic where Insured Person are not admitted for Day-Care Procedures or In-patient
treatment.
Def. 24. Policy means these terms and conditions, any annexure thereto and the Schedule of Insurance
Certificate (as amended from time to time), Your statements in the proposal form and the
Information Summary Sheet and the policy wording (including endorsements, if any).
Def. 25. Policy Period means the period between the date of commencement and the expiry date
specified shown in the Schedule of Insurance Certificate.
Def. 26. Policy Year means the period of one year commencing on the date of commencement
specified in the Schedule of Insurance Certificate or any anniversary thereof.
Def. 27. Pre-existing Condition means any condition, ailment or injury or related condition(s) for which
the Insured Person had signs or symptoms, and / or were diagnosed, and / or received medical
advice/ treatment, within 48 months prior to the first Policy issued by Us.
Def. 28. Product Benefits Table means the Product Benefits Table issued by Us and accompanying
this Policy and annexures thereto.
Def. 29. Qualified Nurse is a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing Council of India or
the Nursing Council of any state in India.
Def. 30. Rehabilitation: Treatment aimed at restoring health or mobility, or to allow a person to live an
independent life, such as after a stroke.
Def. 31. Reasonable and Customary charges means the charges for services or supplies, which are
the standard charges for the specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the
geographical area for identical or similar services among comparable providers, taking into
account the nature of the illness / injury involved.
Def. 32. Schedule of Insurance Certificate means the schedule provided in the insurance certificate
issued by Us, and, if more than one, then the latest in time.
Def. 33. Sum Insured means the sum shown in the Schedule of Insurance Certificate which represents
Our maximum total and cumulative liability for any and all claims under the Policy during the
Policy Period.
Def. 34. Surgical Operation means manual and / or operative procedure (s) required for treatment of an
Illness or injury, correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief of
suffering or prolongation of life, performed in a Hospital or day care centre by a Doctor.
Def. 35. We/Our/Us means Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited
Page 22 of 25Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
Def. 36. You/Your/Policyholder means the person named in the Schedule of Insurance Certificate who
has concluded this Policy with Us.
Any reference to any statute shall be deemed to refer to any replacement or amendment to that statute.
‘Max’, Max Logo, 'Bupa' and HEARTBEAT logo are trademarks of their respective owners and are being
used by Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited under license.
Page 23 of 25Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
Annexure I
List of Insurance Ombudsmen
Office of the Name of the Contact Details Areas of Jurisdiction
Ombudsman Ombudsmen
AHMEDABAD Insurance Ombudsman, Gujarat , UT of Dadra & Nagar
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Haveli, Daman and Diu
2nd Floor, Ambica House,
Nr. C.U. Shah College,
Ashram Road,
AHMEDABAD-380 014.
Tel.:- 079-27546840, Fax : 079-27546142
Email ins.omb@rediffmail.com
BHOPAL Insurance Ombudsman, Madhya Pradesh & Chhattisgarh
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Janak Vihar Complex,
2nd Floor, 6, Malviya Nagar,
Opp. Airtel, Near New Market,
BHOPAL(M.P.)-462 023.
Tel.:- 0755-2569201, Fax : 0755-2769203
Email bimalokpalbhopal@airtelmail.in
BHUBANESHWAR Insurance Ombudsman, Orissa
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
62, Forest Park,
BHUBANESHWAR-751 009.
Tel.:- 0674-2596455, Fax : 0674-2596429
Email ioobbsr@dataone.in
CHANDIGARH Insurance Ombudsman, Punjab , Haryana, Himachal
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir , UT
S.C.O. No.101-103, of Chandigarh
2nd Floor, Batra Building.
Sector 17-D,
CHANDIGARH-160 017.
Tel.:- 0172-2706468, Fax : 0172-2708274
Email ombchd@yahoo.co.in
CHENNAI Shri V. Shri V. Ramasaamy, Tamil Nadu, UT–Pondicherry
Ramasaamy Insurance Ombudsman, Town and Karaikal (which are
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, part of UT of Pondicherry)
Fathima Akhtar Court,
4th Floor, 453 (old 312),
Anna Salai, Teynampet,
CHENNAI-600 018.
Tel.:- 044-24333668 /5284, Fax : 044-24333664
Email insombud@md4.vsnl.net.in
NEW DELHI Shri Shri Surendra Pal Singh Delhi & Rajashthan
Surendra Pal Insurance Ombudsman,
Singh Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Bldg.,
Asaf Ali Road,
NEW DELHI-110 002.
Tel.:- 011-23239633, Fax : 011-23230858
Email iobdelraj@rediffmail.com
GUWAHATI Shri Sarat Shri Sarat Chandra Sarma, Assam , Meghalaya, Manipur,
Chandra Insurance Ombudsman, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh,
Sarma Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Nagaland and Tripura
“Jeevan Nivesh”, 5th Floor,
Near Panbazar Overbridge, S.S. Road,
GUWAHATI-781 001 (ASSAM).
Tel.:- 0361-2132204/5, Fax : 0361-2732937
Email ombudsmanghy@rediffmail.com
HYDERABAD Shri K. Shri K Chandrahas Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and
Chandrahas Insurance Ombudsman, UT of Yanam – a part of the UT
Page 24 of 25Health Companion – Health Insurance Plan POLICY DOCUMENT
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, of Pondicherry
6-2-46, 1st Floor, Moin Court,
A.C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool,
HYDERABAD-500 004.
Tel : 040-65504123, Fax: 040-23376599
Email insombudhyd@gmail.com
ERNAKULAM Insurance Ombudsman, Kerala , UT of (a) Lakshadweep
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, , (b) Mahe – a part of UT of
2nd Floor, CC 27/2603, Pulinat Bldg., Pondicherry
Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M.G. Road,
ERNAKULAM-682 015.
Tel : 0484-2358759, Fax : 0484-2359336
Email iokochi@asianetindia.com
KOLKATA Ms. Manika Ms. Manika Datta West Bengal , Bihar , Jharkhand
Datta Insurance Ombudsman, and UT of Andeman & Nicobar
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Islands , Sikkim
North British Bldg.,
29, N.S. Road, 4th Floor,
KOLKATA-700 001.
Tel : 033-22134866, Fax : 033-22134868
Email iombkol@vsnl.net
LUCKNOW Insurance Ombudsman, Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-2,
6th Floor, Nawal Kishore Road,
Hazaratganj,
LUCKNOW-226 001.
Tel : 0522 -2231331, Fax : 0522-2231310
Email insombudsman@rediffmail.com
MUMBAI Shri S. Shri S Viswanathan Maharashtra , Goa
Viswanathan Insurance Ombudsman,
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe,
S.V. Road, Santacruz(W),
MUMBAI-400 054.
Tel : 022-26106928, Fax : 022-26106052
Email ombudsmanmumbai@gmail.com
OFFICE OF THE GOVERNING BODY OF INSURANCE COUNCIL
Smt. Rita Bhattacharya, Secretary General Shri D V Dixit, Dy. Secretary
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe, 3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe,
S.V. Road, Santacruz(W), S.V. Road, Santacruz (W),
MUMBAI – 400 021 MUMBAI – 400 021.
Tel : 022-26106245 Tel : 022-26106980
Fax : 022-26106949 Fax : 022-26106949
Email- inscoun@gmail.com
Page 25 of 25